README.md, before:

# Safety Order Algorithm

## IP Problem

### Definitions
- $o =$ OFACer index, each person in the performance
- $r =$ row index, each performance
- $c =$ column index, each safety position
- $P =$ performer binary, where $P_{or}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is performing in performance $r$
- $S =$ safety binary, where $S_{orc}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is safetying in performance $r$ in safety position $c$
- $M =$ music master binary, where $M_{or}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is the music master for performance $r$
- $E =$ experienced binary, where $E_{o}$ is $1$ if OFACer $o$ is allowed to be safety 1 or 4

### Givens
- Performance order
- Music masters

### Constraints
Only one role per person per row

$$P_{or} + \sum_{c=1}^{5}s_{orc} + m_{or} \le 1, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

Can't safety right before or after your performance

$$P_{or} \left( \sum_{c=1}^{5} \left( S_{o(r-1)c} + S_{o(r+1)c} \right) \right) = 0, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

Experienced safeties in slots 1 and 4

$$S_{or1} \le E_{o}, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

$$S_{or4} \le E_{o}, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

At least two safeties must stay the same between performances 

$$\sum_{o=1}^{O} \sum_{c=1}^{C} S_{orc} * S_{o(r+1)c} \ge 2, \forall \ r \in R$$

### Optimization
$$\text{min } Z=\sum_{o=1}^{O} \left(\sum_{r=1}^{R} \sum_{c=1}^{C} s_{orc} - \frac{5|R|}{|O|}\right)^2$$

### Current limitations and possible improvements
- Performance order isn't optimized, and there may be infeasible performance orders
- Props aren't considered, so safety 5 is still filled for long props
- Optimize for minimizing swaps
- Include music master in optimization

Commit message:

Reorganized README and added resources

README.md, after:

# Safety Order Algorithm
*Ian Lum, Charlie Mawn, Dominic Salmieri*

## Background

## How it works

## Example Application

### Definitions
- $o =$ OFACer index, each person in the performance
- $r =$ row index, each performance
- $c =$ column index, each safety position
- $P =$ performer binary, where $P_{or}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is performing in performance $r$
- $S =$ safety binary, where $S_{orc}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is safetying in performance $r$ in safety position $c$
- $M =$ music master binary, where $M_{or}$ is $1$ when OFACer $o$ is the music master for performance $r$
- $E =$ experienced binary, where $E_{o}$ is $1$ if OFACer $o$ is allowed to be safety 1 or 4

### Givens
- Performance order
- Music masters

### Constraints
Only one role per person per row

$$P_{or} + \sum_{c=1}^{5}s_{orc} + m_{or} \le 1, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

Can't safety right before or after your performance

$$P_{or} \left( \sum_{c=1}^{5} \left( S_{o(r-1)c} + S_{o(r+1)c} \right) \right) = 0, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

Experienced safeties in slots 1 and 4

$$S_{or1} \le E_{o}, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

$$S_{or4} \le E_{o}, \forall \ r \in R, \forall \ o \in O$$

At least two safeties must stay the same between performances 

$$\sum_{o=1}^{O} \sum_{c=1}^{C} S_{orc} * S_{o(r+1)c} \ge 2, \forall \ r \in R$$

### Optimization
$$\text{min } Z=\sum_{o=1}^{O} \left(\sum_{r=1}^{R} \sum_{c=1}^{C} s_{orc} - \frac{5|R|}{|O|}\right)^2$$

### Current limitations and possible improvements
- Performance order isn't optimized, and there may be infeasible performance orders
- Props aren't considered, so safety 5 is still filled for long props
- Optimize for minimizing swaps
- Include music master in optimization 


## Setup

For this project, we used [numpy](https://numpy.org/) when implementing our Linear and Integer programming solvers. We also tested our constraints using [PuLP](https://coin-or.github.io/pulp/).

These packages are listed in [`requirements.txt`](./requirements.txt) and can be installed using `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Resources

Listed here are the resources we used for this project:
- [The Two-phase Simplex Method: An Example](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_wnqe5_CLU0) - Sergiy Butenko
- [Simplex algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplex_algorithm) - Wikipedia
- [Branch and cut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branch_and_cut) - Wikipedia
- [Cutting-plane method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cutting-plane_method) - Wikipedia
- [Gomory Cuts and a little more](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/15-053-optimization-methods-in-management-science-spring-2013/4717f89c50e91aaa455dbe9cb5a3e225_MIT15_053S13_tut11.pdf) - MIT OpenCourseWare
